# KnowYourScales

KnowYourScales is a simple project designed to make the life of a musician easier. The simple & minimalistic interface allows the user to quickly get the desired information - which notes are in which scale?

# Explanation for Non-Musicians
Our music consists of notes. Western music knows twelve of them: C C# D D# E F F# G G# A A# B. If you were to play all of these notes together, it wouldn't sound good. Luckily there are guidelines that indicate what notes should be played together. These are called 'scales'. A scale contains seven notes that sound good together. Scales are essential for musicians. Nearly every song on the radio is written by using one of those scales. And an improvising musician knows the scale of a song and just plays around with the corresponding notes - the outcome will sound good (of course there is more to both of these very complex concepts, but that's the starting point). One example of a scale is the C Major scale: C D E F G A B. Music theory does not only give you information about what notes should be played together - it even tells musicians, what emotions certain scales evoke. The said Major scale is known to sound happy, Let It Be by The Beatles was written in this scale for example. There is of course the opposite, the Minor scale: C D Eb F G Ab Bb (Gangsta's Paradise by Coolio). And there is the Dorian scale, which has a thoughtful, uncertain, sophisticated sound to it: C D Eb F G A Bb (Eleanor Rigby by The Beatles). These were just three examples, all based on C as the starting note. There are seven different scales: Major, Dorian, Phrygian, Lydian, Mixolydian, Minor & Locrian. And there are 12 different notes. This results in 94 different scales - which is a lot to remember. Of course you could just google it. This is funnily enough quite hard, as there is no website that just simply displays all scales with their corresponding notes - and this is where KnowYourScales comes into play. You simply select your note, your scale and all the notes pop up on the screen. 
